
<img src="../images/Ecma_RVB-003.jpg" align="right" height="70" alt="" />

# Agenda for the 94th meeting of Ecma TC39

- **Host**: Remote
- **Dates and times**:
  - 10:00 to 15:00 EST (America/New\_York) on 30 January 2023
  - 10:00 to 15:00 EST (America/New\_York) on 31 January 2023
  - 10:00 to 15:00 EST (America/New\_York) on 1 February 2023
  - 10:00 to 15:00 EST (America/New\_York) on 2 February 2023
- **Attendee information**: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/454

For meeting times in your timezone, visit [Temporal docs](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal/docs/) and run the code below in the devtools console.

```js
Temporal.ZonedDateTime.from('2023-01-30T10:00[America/New_York]')
  .withTimeZone(Temporal.Now.timeZone()) // your time zone
  .toLocaleString()
```

Background:
- Allen Wirfs-Brock's [paper on standards committee participation for new attendees](http://wirfs-brock.com/allen/files/papers/standpats-asianplop2016.pdf)
- TC39's documentation on [How to participate in meetings](https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/blob/HEAD/how-to-participate-in-meetings.md)

## Agenda topic rules

Deadline for advancement eligibility: [January 20th, 10:00 EST](https://www.timeanddate.com/countdown/generic?p0=1440&iso=20230120T15&msg=TC39%20Submission%20deadline)
  - <sub>Note: this time is selected to be precisely 10 days prior to the start of the meeting</sub>

1. Proposals not looking to advance may be added at any time; if after the deadline, please always use a pull request so that members are notified of changes. Note: an unmerged PR counts as ”added” for the purposes of this requirement.
1. Proposals seeking feedback at stage 0 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *should* include supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 1 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to a proposal repository and they *should* link to supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stages 2, 3, or 4 must be added (and noted as such) *along with the necessary materials* prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to supporting materials prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline. If these materials change substantially after the deadline, the proposal may be disqualified from advancement, based on the committee’s judgment.
    1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 4 *must* link to a pull request into [the spec](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262), since the [process](https://tc39.github.io/process-document/) requires one.
1. Proposal-based agenda items should be sorted primarily by stage (descending), secondarily by timebox (ascending), and finally by insertion date.

Supporting materials includes slides, a link to the proposal repository, a link to spec text, etc.; essentially, anything you are planning to present to the committee, or that would be useful for delegates to review.

## Agenda items

1. Opening, welcome and roll call (Chair)
    1. Opening of the meeting
    1. TC39 follows its [Code of Conduct](https://tc39.github.io/code-of-conduct/)
    1. Introduction of attendees
    1. Host facilities, local logistics
    1. Quick recap of meeting IPR policy
    1. Overview of communication tools
    1. Reminder to review Github Delegate teams (Jordan Harband)
1. Find volunteers for note taking; note [stenography support](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/460)
1. Adoption of the agenda
1. Approval of the minutes from last meeting
1. Next meeting host and logistics
1. Secretary's Report (15m, Istvan Sebestyen) (https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/main/2023/tc39-2023-002.pdf)
1. Project Editors’ Reports
    1. [ECMA262](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262) Status Updates ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1kcZOA8jUq-VMUv-NN89uXb-Jpl_wDmV_hyaB4ZJG_xU/)) (15m)
    1. [ECMA402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402) Status Updates (15m)
    1. [ECMA404](https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-404.htm) Status Updates (15m)
    1. [Test262](https://github.com/tc39/test262) Status Updates (15m)
1. Updates from the [CoC Committee](https://tc39.es/code-of-conduct/#code-of-conduct-committee) (15m)
1. [Web compatibility issues](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22web+reality%22+is%3Aissue) / [Needs Consensus PRs](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22needs+consensus%22)

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|

1. Overflow from previous meeting

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 60m     | [Async Contexts](https://github.com/legendecas/proposal-async-context) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yw4d0ca6v2Z2Vmrnac9E9XJFlC872LDQ4GFR17QdRzk/edit?usp=sharing)) | Justin Ridgewell & Chengzhong Wu |
    |   | 60m     | [Prototype pollution mitigation / Symbol.proto](https://github.com/syg/proposal-symbol-proto) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ahsHQpJ_fhYfDGK5Lwpz2x-H1IuYgryNyB9bRR4xpMI/edit?usp=sharing)) | Shu-yu Guo |
    |   | 20m     | [A procedure for multiple active supporters in committee to achieve consensus](https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/pull/122) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OvxOZrRmKovnVk4CW6GbvLGS5cnnjP6bJyp4cdC5A4U/edit#slide=id.p)) | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    |   | 30m     | Documenting Stage 3 proposals which are not ready to ship ([PR](https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/pull/123), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1m0s8UcfUIrEdqpweVTBnQtBvD00oxSbA-onErrlmegE/edit#slide=id.p)) | Daniel Ehrenberg |



1. Incubation call chartering (15m on the last day)

1. Short (&le;30m) Timeboxed Discussions

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 10m     | Reducing Annex B monkey-patching ([PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2952)) | Kevin Gibbons |

1. Proposals

    ✓ represents an agenda item which has been presented, and does not indicate stage advancement

    | ✓ | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 3     | 15m     | [Symbol as WeakMap key](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-symbols-as-weakmap-keys) for Stage 4 ([spec](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2777), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FMQkmZH5YHsX9G_kPsTQtI3s5bPKJ3hVMJXA2Hz5z1w/)) | Ashley Claymore |
    |   | 3     | 15m     | [JSON.parse source text access](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-json-parse-with-source) Stage 3 update ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HZVC1MI889MxMjHfmrqGiJtHc5THdmQpFI_ocAyR3q4/edit), [spec](https://tc39.github.io/proposal-json-parse-with-source)) | Richard Gibson |
    |   | 3     | 20m     | [Change Array by copy](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-change-array-by-copy) for Stage 4 ([spec](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2997), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_he2QPM7SuqRvg-1R4XqsIfBytuAol8nk_hWo8I-xrE/)) | Ashley Claymore |
    |   | 3     | 20m     | [Intl.NumberFormat V3](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3) for Stage 4 ([spec](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/753), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1b627TYDVDDcdae9D80CP5DLnSYX8GU97nmritxVN5Wo/edit#slide=id.g82ae0c50ed_0_111)) | Shane F. Carr |
    |   | 3     | 20m     | [Intl.DurationFormat](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format) Stage 3 update (Slides TBW) | Ujjwal Sharma |
    |   | 3     | 30m     | [Intl Locale Info API](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-locale-info)  Stage 3 update ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1L_-IRdBeLaOrnj-EFmUWxB_ALe9T_Mvzy4IajuWTg1E), [spec](https://tc39.es/proposal-intl-locale-info)) | Frank Yung-Fong Tang |
    |   | 3     | 30m     | [Explicit Resource Management](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-explicit-resource-management/) Stage 3 update ([slides](https://1drv.ms/p/s!AjgWTO11Fk-TkoUt-2xyNGEquFj6fQ?e=yaUIxb), [spec](https://tc39.es/proposal-explicit-resource-management/)) | Ron Buckton |
    |   | 3     | 30m     | Parallel async iterators via a tweak to iterator helpers ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Gjeg069s1g7vvDUZhJ2Rtb-cBXwQX9WtbHuGLEfbtdw/edit?usp=sharing), [proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-iterator-helpers)) | Kevin Gibbons |
    |   | 3     | 45m     | [Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal) Stage 3 update and normative PRs ([slides](https://ptomato.name/talks/tc39-2023-01/), [spec](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal)) | Philip Chimento |
    |   | 3     | 60m     | [Problems](https://gist.github.com/peetklecha/a55532165dbd4905aa91bbe59e8b1001) with [import assertions](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-import-assertions/) for module types and a possible general solution + downgrade to Stage 2 ([HTML issue](https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/7233), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HbWhyo4tSnpv4vMZqCa2YQvi_mKdpDi4JWWBtSUQqQY/edit), [slides for continuation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1c5y-t-O3wrMEQWb92P1xL7PRcNmFZOOK2-BmC5FUkE8/edit)) | Nicolò Ribaudo |
    |   | 2     | 30m     | [ArrayBuffer transfer](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-arraybuffer-transfer) for Stage 3 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ctltZWJQ5s0xXa4x6Ot0kPod2iVsmwh9z6oJGbRzuTo/edit?usp=sharing), [spec](https://tc39.es/proposal-arraybuffer-transfer/)) | Shu-yu Guo |
    |   | 2     | 60m     | [Async Explicit Resource Management](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-async-explicit-resource-management/) for Stage 3? ([slides](https://1drv.ms/p/s!AjgWTO11Fk-TkoUrpbKj1NY_bFBEzg?e=GmlwFX), [spec](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-async-explicit-resource-management/)) | Ron Buckton |
    |   | 1     | 30m     | [Intl era and monthCode](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-era-monthcode) for Stage 2 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TlhwLfCBsH9MjJTZYpQxfGs4jVnsMX0U8X0hi8WSoxc), [spec](https://tc39.es/proposal-intl-era-monthcode)) | Frank Yung-Fong Tang |
    |   | 1     | 30m     | [Symbol Predicates](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-symbol-predicates) for stage 2 | Jordan Harband |
    |   | 1     | 60m     | [getIntrinsic, with an iterator](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-get-intrinsic/pull/17) for stage 2 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dEwM0IeUrJxCbo_VR7p6kI1Yw6bvcxL780UsL25BLTI/edit)) | Jordan Harband |


1. Longer or open-ended discussions

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 30m     | Discuss SuppressedError argument overlap: `error` and `cause` ([issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-explicit-resource-management/pull/117#issuecomment-1360473420)) | Jordan Harband |
    |   | 30m     | Decorator `context.access` object API ([issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues/494)) | Ron Buckton |
    |   | 30m     | Decorators and `export` Ordering ([issue](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues/69), [slides](https://github.com/DanielRosenwasser/tc39-2023-01/blob/main/Decorator%20and%20export%20Ordering.pdf) | Daniel Rosenwasser, Ron Buckton |

1. Overflow from timeboxed agenda items (in insertion order)

    | ✓ | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|-------|-----------|

1. Other business
    1. Thank host
1. Adjournment

### Schedule constraints

_Schedule constraints should be supplied here **48 hours** before the meeting begins so that the Chairs can take them into account when preparing the schedule._

<!-- Be specific! Provide a full name, date and time range that they will or will not be available, and which sessions they are trying to prioritize. Satisfaction not guaranteed, but more information is useful. Conflicting constraints honored on a first-come, first served basis. -->

#### Normal Constraints

<!-- Constraints supplied more than 48 hours before the meeting should go here -->

- Chengzhong Wu is attending from Hangzhou, preference for the Async Contexts topic being discussed at the first two hours of the meeting, any of the days.
- Anne van Kesteren can only attend in the first two hours of any day, and would like to be present for the "Problems with import assertions for module types" presentation
- Shu-yu Guo can**not** attend January 30, 8:30 - 9:00 AM PT / 11:30 - 12:00 AM ET, please don't schedule his items at that slot. Also, I need to consult with some V8 folks who are OOO until Jan 30 about AsyncContext, please schedule that on Feb 1 or Feb 2
- Santiago Diaz cannot attend January 31 and needs to be present for the Prototype Pollution agenda item.
- Jack Works: I'm interested in the following topics (from most important to least important): `Prototype pollution mitigation / Symbol.proto`, `getIntrinsic`, `Problems with import assertions for module types and a possible general solution`, `Async Explicit Resource Management`, `Symbol Predicates Proposal`, `Symbol as WeakMap key`. I'm available on any day, but it is midnight for me.  I prefer those topics are continuously presented (no other topics in the middle). Those topics should not be presented earlier than the scheduled time if possible, otherwise I may miss it.
- Michael Saboff: I cannot attend January 31, 13:00-15:00 EST.  I'd like to be present for the Problems with Import Assertions discussion.
- it would be ideal if the SuppressedError topic was immediately before, or after, the Explicit Resource Management update topic, since they're about the same proposal
- Yulia Startsev can only attend morning sessions. For overflow topics this meeting I would like to be present, and request that those go in the mornings.

#### Late-breaking Schedule Constraints

<!-- Constraints supplied less than 48 hours before the meeting should go here -->
- The outcome of "Decorator `context.access` object API" will affect the TypeScript 5.0 RC at the end of February and needs to be discussed this meeting.
- The outcome of "Decorators and `export` Ordering" will affect the TypeScript 5.0 RC at the end of February and needs to be discussed this meeting.


## Dates and locations of future meetings

| Dates                    | Location            | Host                 |
|--------------------------|---------------------|----------------------|
| 2023-03-21 to 2023-03-23 | Seattle, US         | F5                   |
| 2023-05-15 to 2023-05-18 | _Remote: "Chicago"_ |                      |
| 2023-07-11 to 2023-07-13 | Bergen, Norway      | University of Bergen |
| 2023-09-26 to 2023-09-28 | Tokyo, Japan        | Bloomberg            |
| 2023-11-27 to 2023-11-30 | _Remote: "SF"_      |                      |
