<img src="../images/Ecma_RVB-003.jpg" align="right" height="70" alt="" />

## Agenda for the 64th meeting of Ecma TC39

- **Host**: Bloomberg, New York, NY
- **Dates**: 22-24 May 2018
- **Times**:
  - 10:00 to 17:00 EDT on 22 May 2018
  - 10:00 to 17:00 EDT on 23 May 2018
  - 10:00 to 16:00 EDT on 24 May 2018
- **Location**: Bloomberg LP HQ, 731 Lexington Ave, New York, NY 10022
  - [Map](https://goo.gl/maps/DdFsHv6HQrJ2)
  - [Subway PDF](http://web.mta.info/nyct/maps/subway_map.pdf): Directly above 59th St 4/5/N/R/W train stop
- **Wifi**: Printed badges contain individual credentials
- **Dinner**: TBD
- **Contacts**:
  - TC39 Member contact (for local arrangements):
    - Name: Andrew Paprocki
    - Email: andrew@ishiboo.com

## Logistics

* **Photo ID is required to pick up your badge each day**
* The building sits above the 59th St 4/5/N/R/W subway station
* Highly recommended to use subways, taxis, and/or car services -- do not drive/park
* Video conferencing software is TBD
* Necessary display adapters will be provided

Allen's paper on standards committee participation for new attendees: http://wirfs-brock.com/allen/files/papers/standpats-asianplop2016.pdf

## Registration

[Doodle](https://ecma-international.doodle.com/poll/iksxv4v23c7s35hz) (TC39 members only)

All visitors must be pre-registered in the Doodle to have a badge available upon arriving.

## Hotels

Since the building is directly above the train station, seek hotels directly above the 4/5 train (e.g. Grand Hyatt at Grand Central 42nd St station, or W Union Square at 14th St station), or above the N/R/W train (e.g., Central Park hotels near 5th Ave station). Smaller hotels are available a few blocks away, but pay attention to reviews from business travelers if possible. TC39 members in New York or that have attended previous New York meetings can give recommendations.

## Holiday

Monday 28th May 2018 is a US holiday; travel and hotel volume might be higher than usual the week of the meeting, so please plan accordingly.

## Community Event cohosted with NYCHTML5
* Date: Thursday 24 May 2018 (last day of TC39 meeting)
* Time: 18:00--21:00
* Location: [Knewton](https://goo.gl/maps/7N6UJsgZNnH2)
* Organisers: Shu-yu Guo, Knewton staff, NYCHTML5
* Registration: Cohosted with [NYCHTML5](https://www.meetup.com/nychtml5/events/250427050/): free, open to all interested, limited to 70
* Pizza and drinks will be served at the event.

## Agenda topic rules

Deadline for advancement eligibility: [**12th May 2018, 10:00 EDT**](https://www.timeanddate.com/countdown/generic?iso=20180512T10&p0=179&msg=TC39+Submission+Deadline&font=cursive)
  - <sub>Note: this time is selected to be precisely 10 days prior to the start of the meeting</sub>

1. Proposals not looking to advance may be added at any time; if after the deadline, please always use a pull request so that members are notified of changes.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 0 or 1 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *should* include supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stages 2, 3, or 4 must be added (and noted as such) *along with the necessary materials* prior to the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to supporting materials prior to the deadline, or they will not be eligible for advancement. If these materials change substantially after the deadline, the proposal may be disqualified from advancement, based on the committee’s judgment.
1. Proposal-based agenda items should be sorted primarily by stage (descending), secondarily by timebox (ascending), and finally by insertion date.

Supporting materials includes slides, a link to the proposal repository, a link to spec text, etc.; essentially, anything you are planning to present to the committee, or that would be useful for delegates to review.

## Agenda items

1. ~~Opening, welcome and roll call~~
    1. ~~Opening of the meeting (Mr. Jaeschke)~~
    1. ~~TC39 follows its [Code of Conduct](https://tc39.github.io/code-of-conduct/)~~
    1. ~~Introduction of attendees~~
    1. ~~Host facilities, local logistics~~
    1. ~~Quick recap of meeting IPR policy (Daniel Ehrenberg)~~
    1. ~~Overview of communication tools (Brian Terlson)~~
1. ~~Find volunteers for note taking~~
1. ~~Adoption of the agenda~~
    1. ~~Adopting a fairly minor change to agenda format ([issue](https://github.com/tc39/agendas/issues/360) / [PR](https://github.com/tc39/agendas/pull/374)) (Michael Ficarra, Daniel Ehrenberg) (15m)~~
1. ~~Approval of the minutes from last meeting~~
1. Next meeting host and logistics
1. ~~Report from the Ecma Secretariat (15m, Istvan Sebestyen, Wed 1:00 PM) ([slides](https://github.com/tc39/agendas/raw/HEAD/2018/istvan-update-may-2018.pdf))~~
1. Project Editors’ Reports
    1. ECMA262 Status Updates (15m)
    1. ~~ECMA402 Status Updates (15m)~~
    1. ~~ECMA404 Status Updates (15m)~~
    1. ~~Test262 Status Updates (15m)~~
1. ~~Updates from the CoC Committee (15m)~~
1. ~~Web compatibility issues / Needs Consensus PRs~~

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 15m     | ~~[Normative: Cleanup Time Values and Time Range](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1144) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CMtJKMfMiQAomQ5yJxu25pIfF7anF11LR1zdwUyuxys/edit?usp=sharing))~~ | Andrew Paprocki |
    | 15m     | ~~[Normative: Add `export * as ns from "mod”` to Export production and Module Semantics](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1174) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FmaW2p4DIBOO2fWVUIVhFRz7N4ekVVLqGqmjqV-uaj8/edit?usp=sharing))~~ | Valerie Young, John-David Dalton |
    | 15m     | ~~Array.prototype.values web compat update~~ | Sathya Gunasekaran |

1. ~~Overflow from previous meeting~~

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|

1. ~~Short (&le;30m) Timeboxed Discussions~~

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 15m     | ~~[2019](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/130)/2020 meeting scheduling update~~ | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 15m     | ~~[Update to the How We Work Documentation project](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1DZ0Q7hX-4ST08n4PUHD3NjRC6_2iAn7ukTa_QAPMgAg/edit?usp=sharing) and [Website](https://github.com/tc39/tc39-web-draft)~~ | yulia (@codehag) |
    | 15m     | ~~:hourglass: SuperProperty evaluation order ([issue](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/1175), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hYEAK5-fO97tbnsJlsxypcx5YBPYm09-TPf00s3Ck5g/))~~ | Justin Ridgewell |
    | 30m     | ~~Intl update ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1wEkpdxC37t4sk64QThcna8c4753-9Ak1I23LNDmZ9KE/edit?usp=sharing))~~ | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 30m     | ~~[Rename Atomics.wake](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1awJqO2WcBs4UlBaLZn0mfwV3xOYOlo0hHNbB6mtctnQ/)~~ | Rick Waldron, Filip Pizlo, Leo Balter |
    | 30m     | ~~Supporting other languages in ES module graphs updates ([slides](https://linclark.github.io/wasm-es-modules/slides/2018-05-23/#/0), [PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1199))~~ (Wed, second item after lunch) | Lin Clark |

1. Proposals

    | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 3     | 15m     | ~~[Optional catch binding](https://tc39.github.io/proposal-optional-catch-binding/) for stage 4 ([#1185](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1185))~~ | Michael Ficarra |
    | 3     | 15m     | ~~[ECMAScript ⊃ JSON](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-json-superset) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_1PNgDm55vtRYQ0UwndHQ0pI7aWGEcYgPztdXs08HVw/edit)) for Stage 4 ([#1188](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1188))~~ | Mathias Bynens |
    | 3     | 30m     | ~~[Numeric separators update](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ivYa55mNEDPZ2z5K41fU5gwRxmlb4aUTrA0qEuBTfow/edit#slide=id.p) (Thu 1:00 PM)~~ | Sam Goto, Rick Waldron, Leo Balter, Dan Ehrenberg |
    | 3     | 30m     | ~~Updates and [a question to resolve](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-string-matchall/issues/34) on String.prototype.matchAll~~ | Jordan Harband |
    | 3     | 30m     | ~~BigInt status update ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Bx13eCgM9Rujs4zNdfO95de_4wehhx8RxNx5aZl-3D4/edit?usp=sharing), [repository](http://github.com/tc39/proposal-bigint/))~~ | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 3     | 30m     | ~~[Function.prototype.toString revision](https://github.com/tc39/Function-prototype-toString-revision) updates ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1W3Qlhb76BNP5_DHLDRP-KvWq0qJpzoz8zL_1U_4YYSQ/edit?usp=sharing)) and stage 4 ([#697](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/697))~~ | Michael Ficarra |
    | 3     | 45m     | ~~Approving a replacement name for Array.prototype.flatten (not smoosh)~~ | Michael Ficarra |
    | 2     | 30m     | ~~[Symbol.prototype.description](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-Symbol-description) for stage 3~~ | Michael Ficarra |
    | 1     | 30m     | ~~[Object.fromEntries](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-object-from-entries) to [stage 2](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-object-from-entries/issues/14)?~~ | Jordan Harband, Kevin Gibbons |
    | 1     | 30m     | ~~[Top-Level Await](http://github.com/mylesborins/proposal-top-level-await/) [(slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1lTTiNosXlqk78FO7Ze_CdMbF3PhO36kCk-mT783wpi8/edit?usp=sharing) for stage 2~~ | Myles Borins |
    | 1     | 30m     | ~~[Function.prototype.toString() censorship](https://domenic.github.io/proposal-function-prototype-tostring-censorship/) for stage 2~~ | Domenic Denicola |
    | 1     | 30m     | ~~[Set methods](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-set-methods/) for stage 2 [(slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xsMiY63xN4l7YUZe3W0ITq7C4nBxWa8_1u-MGm0nwN4/edit?usp=sharing)~~ | Sathya Gunasekaran, Michal Wadas |
    | 1     | 30m     | ~~[`String.prototype.codePoints`](https://github.com/RReverser/string-prototype-codepoints) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1hzaEVp9Z4NoUDg0n05hffPuw3fSnIZlI46MzNAHEU5s/edit)) for Stage 2~~ | Mathias Bynens |
    | 1     | 60m     | ~~Binary AST update (Thu 11:00A) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12A0w7XuazDyhvSxqPcfXZCqV17iFJF6LOaNP-gtzifM/edit?usp=sharing), [spec rough draft](https://binast.github.io/ecmascript-binary-ast/))~~ | Shu-yu Guo, Eric Faust, Vladan Djeric |
    | --    | 15m     | ~~[Sequence properties in Unicode property escapes](https://github.com/mathiasbynens/proposal-regexp-unicode-sequence-properties) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Nd7pjZBztiI5_4DEHEtxb_hw5Ve3eJbcpUbhUO-Z3JE/edit)) for Stage 1~~ | Mathias Bynens |
    | --    | 30m     | ~~[Well-formed `JSON.stringify`](https://github.com/gibson042/ecma262-proposal-well-formed-stringify) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1A6sQphLdaUe56V0lEp4wVT6Q2r9tjmIITZBbudKZtDU/edit)) for Stage 1~~ | Mathias Bynens |
    | --    | 30m     | ~~[`Symbol.thenable`](https://github.com/devsnek/proposal-symbol-thenable) for stage 1 (or 2?)~~ | Jordan Harband and Myles Borins |
    | --    | 30m     | [`Intl.DateTimeFormat.prototype.formatRange`](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) for Stage 1 ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQXuKpkf-kHF4Ue-35PAez79EL2bTU-s3dGbQvj0zwOzbqnF1zJJif_RT8wV9v8VkI4agEzvBPbKOoi/pub)) | Felipe Balbontin, Sathya Gunasekaran |
    | --    | 30m     | [`ArrayBuffer.prototype.transfer`](https://github.com/domenic/proposal-arraybuffer-transfer): base proposal for stage 2; discussion on extended proposal | Domenic Denicola |
    | --    | 15m     | [RegExp Match array offsets](https://github.com/rbuckton/proposal-regexp-match-offsets#readme) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12I8W-uViPXuFu2IAk3yZpXTr5MxLYxCfhJValykyT0E/edit?usp=sharing)) | Ron Buckton |
    | --    | 15m     | [Explicit Resource Management](https://github.com/rbuckton/proposal-using-statement#readme) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12I8W-uViPXuFu2IAk3yZpXTr5MxLYxCfhJValykyT0E/edit?usp=sharing)) | Ron Buckton |
    | --    | 45m     | ~~["Blöcks" syntax](https://github.com/domenic/proposal-blocks) for stage 0~~ | Domenic Denicola |

1. Exceptions for this meeting

    1. ~~security features (Wed morning)~~

        | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
        |:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
        | --    | 60m     | ~~Stopping exfiltration ([Massive privacy violations](https://freedom-to-tinker.com/2018/01/12/website-operators-are-in-the-dark-about-privacy-violations-by-third-party-scripts/) vs [boundaries](https://twitter.com/BrendanEich/status/987349792505253888)) ([slides](https://github.com/tc39/agendas/raw/HEAD/2018/stopping-exfiltration.pdf), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pig-sIS8_Wc&list=PLKr-mvz8uvUgybLg53lgXSeLOp4BiwvB2&index=20&t=0s))~~ | Mark S. Miller |
        | --    | 30m     | ~~[Module Keys](https://github.com/mikesamuel/tc39-module-keys) for Stage 1~~ | Mike Samuel |
        | 1     | 30m     | ~~[Realms](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-realms) [(slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1blHLQuB3B2eBpt_FbtLgqhT6Zdwi8YAv6xhxPNA_j0A/edit?usp=sharing) for Stage 2~~ | Caridy Patiño, Mark S. Miller, Dave Herman |

    1. ~~class things (Wed afternoon)~~

        | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
        |:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
        | 3     | 15m     | ~~Class fields status update ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oDQOS9b8wnuP5-o8zInsEO9lpRbhduawAmvfRzbxkOs/edit?usp=sharing), [repository](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-fields))~~ | Daniel Ehrenberg |
        | 2     | 60m     | ~~Static class features for Stage 3 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YzFr7EIGiX2YagfFMjkI-lVR6ouoRfPbTNLY--NGbC4/edit?usp=sharing), [repository](http://github.com/tc39/proposal-static-class-features/))~~ | Shu-yu Guo, Daniel Ehrenberg |
        | 2     | 45m     | ~~Decorators towards Stage 3 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sQJunzPUqaD-fbyGCRHJI1Sn5w2mo5F8hXFXfJOFTxY/edit?usp=sharing), [repository](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators))~~ | Daniel Ehrenberg, Yehuda Katz, Brian Terlson |
        | --    | 15m     | ~~[Class Static Block](https://github.com/rbuckton/proposal-class-static-block#readme) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TLFrhKMW2UHlHIcjKN02cEJsSq4HL7odS6TE6M-OGYg/edit?usp=sharing))~~ | Ron Buckton |
        | --    | 30m     | ~~[class Access Expressions](https://github.com/rbuckton/proposal-class-access-expressions#readme) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1VXqGgxq_a0byLuc9yl4jSLR6GlopjvhU_Z0OpZnk6l0/edit?usp=sharing))~~ | Ron Buckton |

    1. pattern matching features (Thu 10:00A, 60min total timebox)

        | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
        |:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
        | --    | 60m     | ~~Pattern Matching for Stage 1 ([github](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pattern-matching), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WPyAO4pHRsfwGoiIZupz_-tzAdv8mirw-aZfbxbAVcQ/edit?usp=sharing))~~ | Kat Marchán, Brian Terlson |
        | --    | 15m     | [`as` destructuring patterns](https://github.com/zkat/proposal-as-patterns) for Stage 1 | Kat Marchán |
        | --    | 30m     | ~~[Tagged Collection Literals](https://github.com/zkat/proposal-collection-literals) for Stage 1~~ | Kat Marchán |

1. Longer or open-ended discussions

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 30m     | Open-ended discussion: How should we analyze complexity and cross-cutting concerns on syntax and library proposals? | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 30m     | Open-ended discussion: How should we collaborate within a large committee? | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 45m     | Reviewing the future JS syntax throughout the current proposals ([slides]()) | Leo Balter |

1. ~~Overflow from timeboxed agenda items (in insertion order)~~

    | topic | presenter |
    |-------|-----------|
    | ~~[Function.prototype.toString() censorship](https://domenic.github.io/proposal-function-prototype-tostring-censorship/) for stage 2~~ | Domenic Denicola |
    | ~~Continue 2019 schedule discussion~~ | Daniel Ehrenberg |

1. ~~Other business~~
    1. ~~Thank host~~
1. ~~Adjournment~~

### Schedule constraints

- Valerie Young can only attend the meeting online on the first day (May 22nd). Planning to present the `export * as ns from "mod”` PR
- Vladan Djeric coming for binary AST will only be here Wed and Thurs (May 23 - May 24).
- Istvan Sebestyen is available only Wed (May 23rd) and needs to be available for the Ecma update.
- Lin Clark, presenting a 30-min item on supporting other languages in ES module graphs, will only be available on Wed (May 23rd).

## Dates and locations of future meetings

| Dates                    | Location          | Host                    |
|--------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|
| 2018-07-24 to 2018-07-26 | Redmond           | Microsoft               |
| 2018-09-25 to 2018-09-27 | New York          | PayPal                  |
| 2018-11-27 to 2018-11-29 | Cupertino         | Apple                   |
