
<img src="../images/Ecma_RVB-003.jpg" align="right" height="70" alt="" />

## Agenda for the 65th meeting of Ecma TC39

- **Host**: Microsoft, Redmond, WA
- **Dates**: 24-26 July 2018
- **Times**:
  - 10:00 to 17:00 PT on 24 and 25 of July 2018
  - 10:00 to 16:00 PT on 26 of July 2018
- **Location**: 
  Lincoln Square (Room TBD)<br>
  700 Bellevue Way NE<br>
  Bellevue, WA 98004
- **Wifi**: TBD
- **Dinner**: TBD
- **Contact**:
  - Name: Brian Terlson
  - Phone: 763.498.3633
  - Email: brian.terlson@microsoft.com

## Logistics

* Where to park
* How to access the building
* Technical presentation requirements (adapters, google hangouts/other accounts required, etc.)
* Any other logistics required to participate in the meeting

Allen's paper on standards committee participation for new attendees: http://wirfs-brock.com/allen/files/papers/standpats-asianplop2016.pdf

### Registration

[Doodle](https://ecma-international.doodle.com/poll/8z24z37ryy7dqs2q)

### Hotels

TBD Hotels nearby (optional)

## Agenda topic rules

Deadline for advancement eligibility: [**July 14, 2018, 18:00 UTC**](https://www.timeanddate.com/countdown/generic?p0=1440&iso=20180714T18&msg=TC39%20Submission%20deadline)
  - <sub>Note: this time is selected to be precisely 10 days prior to the start of the meeting</sub>

1. Proposals not looking to advance may be added at any time; if after the deadline, please always use a pull request so that members are notified of changes.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 0 or 1 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *should* include supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stages 2, 3, or 4 must be added (and noted as such) *along with the necessary materials* prior to the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to supporting materials prior to the deadline, or they will not be eligible for advancement. If these materials change substantially after the deadline, the proposal may be disqualified from advancement, based on the committee’s judgment.
1. Proposal-based agenda items should be sorted primarily by stage (descending), secondarily by timebox (ascending), and finally by insertion date.

Supporting materials includes slides, a link to the proposal repository, a link to spec text, etc.; essentially, anything you are planning to present to the committee, or that would be useful for delegates to review.

## Agenda items

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Opening of the meeting (Mr. Jaeschke)
    1. TC39 follows its [Code of Conduct](https://tc39.github.io/code-of-conduct/)
    1. Introduction of attendees
    1. Host facilities, local logistics
    1. Quick recap of meeting IPR policy (Daniel Ehrenberg)
    1. Overview of communication tools (Brian Terlson)
1. Find volunteers for note taking
1. Adoption of the agenda
1. Approval of the minutes from last meeting
1. Next meeting host and logistics
1. Report from the Ecma Secretariat (15m, Istvan Sebestyen)
1. Project Editors’ Reports
    1. ECMA262 Status Updates (15m)
    1. ECMA402 Status Updates (15m)
    1. ECMA404 Status Updates (15m)
    1. Test262 Status Updates (15m)
1. Updates from the CoC Committee (15m)
1. Web compatibility issues / Needs Consensus PRs

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|

1. Overflow from previous meeting

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 30m     | [`as` destructuring patterns](https://github.com/zkat/proposal-as-patterns) for Stage 1 | Kat Marchán |
    | 30m     | [`ArrayBuffer.prototype.transfer`](https://github.com/domenic/proposal-arraybuffer-transfer): base proposal for stage 2; discussion on extended proposal | Domenic Denicola |
    | 15m     | [Explicit Resource Management](https://github.com/rbuckton/proposal-using-statement#readme) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12I8W-uViPXuFu2IAk3yZpXTr5MxLYxCfhJValykyT0E/edit?usp=sharing)) | Ron Buckton |
    | 30m     | [`Intl.DateTimeFormat.prototype.formatRange`](https://github.com/fabalbon/proposal-intl-DateTimeFormat-formatRange) for Stage 1 ([Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQXuKpkf-kHF4Ue-35PAez79EL2bTU-s3dGbQvj0zwOzbqnF1zJJif_RT8wV9v8VkI4agEzvBPbKOoi/pub)) | Felipe Balbontin, Sathya Gunasekaran |

1. Short (&le;30m) Timeboxed Discussions

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 30m     | Report on Realms shim Security Review | JF Paradis, Mark S. Miller, Brian Warner, Dean Tribble |
    | 15m     | Call for volunteers on TC39 technical infrastructure | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 15m     | Input requested on TC39 Invited Expert policy | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 15m     | Call for Ecma Fellow proposals | |

1. Proposals

    | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 3     | 15m     | New name for [`global`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-global/issues/20) | Jordan Harband |
    | 2     | 60m     | Decorators for Stage 3 | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 1     | 60m     | Temporal for Stage 2 | Maggie Pint |

1. Stage 0 10m lightning talks (Thursday morning)

    | topic | presenter |
    |-------|-----------|

1. Longer or open-ended discussions (Thursday afternoon)

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 30m     | Open-ended discussion: How should we analyze complexity and cross-cutting concerns on syntax and library proposals? (overflow) | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 30m     | Open-ended discussion: How should we collaborate within a large committee?  (overflow) | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 45m     | Reviewing the future JS syntax throughout the current proposals ([slides]()) (overflow) | Leo Balter |
    | 60m     | [Abstractions for membranes](https://github.com/ajvincent/es-membrane) | Alex Vincent (expert invited by Mark S. Miller) |
    | 30m     | Next steps on JS built-in modules | backup: Daniel Ehrenberg |
    
1. 15m+ Stage 0 proposals

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 45m     | [`Intl.NumberFormat` Unified Feature Proposal](https://github.com/sffc/proposal-unified-intl-numberformat) for Stage 2 | Shane Carr |

1. Overflow from timeboxed agenda items (in insertion order)

    | topic | presenter |
    |-------|-----------|

1. Other business
    1. Thank host
1. Adjournment

### Schedule constraints

Alex Vincent (membranes invited expert) can only attend this one meeting.

## Dates and locations of future meetings

| Dates                    | Location          | Host                    |
|--------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|
| 2018-09-25 to 2018-09-27 | New York          | PayPal                  |
| 2018-11-27 to 2018-11-29 | Cupertino         | Apple                   |
| 2019-01-29 to 2018-01-31 | Scottsdale, AZ    | GoDaddy                 |
| 2019-03-26 to 2019-03-28 | New York          | Google                  |
| 2019-06-04 to 2019-06-06 | Berlin            | JSConf EU               |
| 2019-07-23 to 2019-07-25 | Redmond, WA       | Microsoft               |
