
<img src="../images/Ecma_RVB-003.jpg" align="right" height="70" alt="" />

## Agenda for the 66th meeting of Ecma TC39

- **Host**: PayPal, New York, NY
- **Dates**: 25-27 September 2018
- **Times**:
  - 10:00 to 17:00 EDT on 25 and 26 of September 2018
  - 10:00 to 16:00 EDT on 27 of September 2018
- **Location**: [NYC Seminar and Conference Center](http://www.nycseminarcenter.com/) 46 West 24th St, New York, NY 10010
- **Wifi**:
  * SSID: NYC Seminar Center / pass2016
  * portal user: clients / pw: pass2016
- **Contact**:
  - Name: Aki Braun
  - Phone: 414-215-0254
  - Email: akbraun@paypal.com (do not use email for urgent matters; text, call, or PM akirose on IRC instead)
- **Newcomers Event:**
  - Tuesday, September 25, 18:00
  - PayPal New York, 115 Barrow St, 2nd Floor ("King Kong"), New York, NY 10014
  - Meet at the door on Barrow St at 18:00, Aki will escort everyone in
  - Latecomers can text/twitter dm/irc pm Aki for an escort
- **Dinner**:
  - Wednesday, September 26, 19:30
  - PayPal New York, 115 Barrow St, Rooftop, New York, NY 10014
  - We'll have 1st Floor as weather contingency
- **Community Event:**
  - [Manhattan.js](http://manhattanjs.com/)
  - Thursday, September 27, 19:00-21:30
  - 350 5th Ave, New York, NY  10118
  - Delegate RSVP is closed, if you'd still like to attend, [let aki know](mailto:akbraun@paypal.com)

## Logistics

* Parking:
  * 724 Parking Corp.
  (Corner of 6th Ave. and 24th)
  (866) 807-1114
  * Ultra Park
  101 W 23rd St.
  (Between 6th and 7th Ave.)
  (866) 807-1114
  * 736 6th Avenue Garage
  (Between 24th & 25th Streets)
  * Impark
  750 6th Avenue
  (24th St. Garage)
  (866) 807-1114

* How to access the building:
The building at 46 West 24th St has turnstiles which require security badges to enter the building. Guests will need to provide their name and government-issued ID to have their badges printed. The badges are good for all three days (but can be replaced if they get lost)
  * [This is what the entrance looks like](https://snaps.akibraun.com/sakok.JPG)
  * [This is on the floor after security!](https://snaps.akibraun.com/2cg1r.JPG)
  * [After riding the elevator down to LL, this will be our room(s)](https://snaps.akibraun.com/wti4z.JPG)
* Any other logistics required to participate in the meeting
  * Don't forget your ID!

Allen's paper on standards committee participation for new attendees: http://wirfs-brock.com/allen/files/papers/standpats-asianplop2016.pdf

### Registration

[Doodle](https://doodle.com/poll/569qd3tk4iptuhqs)

### Hotels

- [Ace Hotel New York](https://www.acehotel.com/newyork) 20 W 29th St, New York, NY 10001
- [The Standard High Line](http://www.standardhotels.com/new-york/properties/high-line) 848 Washington St, New York, NY 10014

(These are the only two I have experience with in the area, but there are a _lot_ of hotels nearby. TripAdvisor has a list of [the 10 closest hotels to our venue](https://www.tripadvisor.com/HotelsNear-g60763-d104363-Flatiron_Building-New_York_City_New_York.html).)

## Agenda topic rules

Deadline for advancement eligibility: [**September 15, 2018, 18:00 UTC**](https://www.timeanddate.com/countdown/generic?p0=179&iso=20180915T10&msg=TC39%20Submission%20deadline)
  - <sub>Note: this time is selected to be precisely 10 days prior to the start of the meeting</sub>

1. Proposals not looking to advance may be added at any time; if after the deadline, please always use a pull request so that members are notified of changes.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 0 or 1 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *should* include supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stages 2, 3, or 4 must be added (and noted as such) *along with the necessary materials* prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to supporting materials prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline. If these materials change substantially after the deadline, the proposal may be disqualified from advancement, based on the committee’s judgment.
1. Proposal-based agenda items should be sorted primarily by stage (descending), secondarily by timebox (ascending), and finally by insertion date.

Supporting materials includes slides, a link to the proposal repository, a link to spec text, etc.; essentially, anything you are planning to present to the committee, or that would be useful for delegates to review.

## Agenda items

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Opening of the meeting (Mr. Jaeschke)
    1. TC39 follows its [Code of Conduct](https://tc39.github.io/code-of-conduct/)
    1. Introduction of attendees
    1. Host facilities, local logistics
    1. Quick recap of meeting IPR policy (Daniel Ehrenberg)
    1. Overview of communication tools (Brian Terlson)
1. Find volunteers for note taking
1. Adoption of the agenda
1. Approval of the minutes from last meeting
1. Next meeting host and logistics
1. Report from the Ecma Secretariat (15m, Istvan Sebestyen)
1. Project Editors’ Reports
    1. ECMA262 Status Updates (15m)
    1. [ECMA402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402) Status Updates ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xmwZPjAAmT2D7PQSH_G9Y62PhPXSNDzsX38qVuv2upo/edit#slide=id.p)) (15m)
    1. ECMA404 Status Updates (15m)
    1. Test262 Status Updates (15m)
1. Updates from the CoC Committee (15m)
1. Ad-hoc TC39 History Group - Archival data and you! (<10 mins, Jory Burson)
1. Ecma Fellows nominations (5m)
1. [Web compatibility issues](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22web+reality%22+is%3Aissue) / [Needs Consensus PRs](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22needs+consensus%22)

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 15m     | [Normative: allow `ArraySpeciesCreate` to create non-arrays](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1289) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1c8r7PjtioCbO_mHLH_osgiFigZCmlDRpjpouOQauIw0/edit?usp=sharing)) | Kevin Gibbons
    | 15m     | [Normative: Reduce the number of ticks in `async`/`await`](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1250) | Editor group (or Kevin Smith)
    | 15m     | [Normative: Add `export * as ns from "mod"`](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1174) | Editor group (or Valerie Young)
    | 15m     | [Normative: Use array indices instead of integer indices in `OrdinaryOwnPropertyKeys`](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1242) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16wVIY5QQcIBrcr91rUbW9EPDJBwisStblFcdEsPiOok/edit)) | Mathias Bynens
    | 15m     | [Normative: Use GetMethod instead of GetV to get iterator `next`](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1288) | Editor group
    | 30m     | [Normative: GetExportedNames adjustments for Dynamic Modules](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1306) | Bradley Farias

1. Overflow from previous meeting

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | ? | Update on do-expressions | Dave Herman |

1. Short (&le;30m) Timeboxed Discussions

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 30m     | Update on [`String.prototype.matchAll`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-string-matchall/issues/39) | Jordan Harband |
    | 15m     | `Array.prototype.sort` stability ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mHvxDciqsAchhjepMZlU5fn1DBvglCXSjDWUEtsPGvI/edit)) | Mathias Bynens |
    | 30m     | [`for-in` mechanics](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/1281) ([repo](https://github.com/bakkot/for-in-exploration) / [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ppVLFjnd2iGksBXeu97lml2cs9dTRJnJLfufcshvPcs/edit?usp=sharing)) | Kevin Gibbons |
    | 15m     | Ecma policy discussion next steps ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1s4NMqKIqzpnASvWkNVD_ql_TPnZLohSsC6WrqSHnp78/edit#slide=id.p)) | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 5m      | September 2019 meeting location decision | |
    | 15m     | 2019 chair group nominations ([one proposal](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1P5DdJBQrr5hj_x-SqQxk8HOTaipJUaxbH0icp1g9iMk/edit?usp=drivesdk))| |
    | 30m     | [Consistent Behavior Delegation for Configurable Properties & Extensible Values](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17dji3YM5_LeMvdAD3Y3PQoXU1Mgm5e2yN_BraBSTkjo/edit?usp=sharing) | Bradley Farias |
    | 15m     | [Include `static` in static method `toString`](https://github.com/tc39/Function-prototype-toString-revision/issues/34) | Jordan Harband, Justin Ridgewell
    | 20m     | [Groups update](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1evbnsGmYVM1zvI6FZd8hkcECRC2Gz3geL7ZaJJlRlMU/edit#slide=id.p) | Yulia Startsev and Daniel Ehrenberg |

1. Proposals

    | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 3 | 10m | [`Array.prototype.flat{,Map}`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-flatMap) for Stage 4 :tada: | Michael Ficarra & Brian Terlson |
    | 2 | 15m | [Well-formed `JSON.stringify`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-well-formed-stringify) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oTkthPjlRg8FOsyvD9XdA-rPkfLcMrTDCIiHNltIxpw/edit)) for Stage 3 | Mathias Bynens |
    | 2 | 60m | [Decorators](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/) Stage 2 update: Discussing decorator/export ordering, integrity and privacy ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1s9bu_Z0vWR9eR4TL_8LEOmIFZvPth9Z8BLcHVqYWf_0/edit#slide=id.p)) | Daniel Ehrenberg, Jordan Harband, Ron Buckton |
    | 1 | 15m | [Hashbang for stage 2](https://bmeck.github.io/proposal-hashbang/out.html) | Bradley Farias |
    | 1 | 30m | [Sequence properties in Unicode property escapes](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-unicode-sequence-properties) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19GskXitY8EC5L2Xo4NRk0pNvJB6w2_rJKIIua2xWQE8/edit)) for Stage 2 | Mathias Bynens |
    | 1 | 60m | [Temporal for stage 2](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal) | Maggie Pint |
    | 0 | 15m | [`Promise.allSettled`](https://github.com/jasonwilliams/proposal-promise-allSettled) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1uTbKpOTigtOw1m8w7G_G4CBMn_DzGYcPftXNYr7nRfI/edit)) for Stage 1 | Mathias Bynens |
    | 0 | 30m | [IDL for JavaScript](https://github.com/littledan/proposal-idl/blob/master/README.md) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/17JnVfV8claiW1u8rFgvzg7itzNBVC9ahgK0RcyXOc70/edit)) | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 0 | 30m | [uniform parsing of quasi-standard `Date.parse` input](https://github.com/gibson042/ecma262-proposal-uniform-interchange-date-parsing) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1E4f7hMmJLj09FWq8YEIaATAzIShHpFY37OyWZMf3I5c/edit?usp=sharing)) for Stage 1 | Richard Gibson |
    | 0 | 30m | :hourglass: [JSON.parse source text access](https://github.com/gibson042/ecma262-proposal-JSON-parse-with-source) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PB0HCOxWZikFmTAqR5U2ZZjEiDV7NjhPN_-SK5NNG0w/edit?usp=sharing)) for Stage 1 | Richard Gibson |

1. Longer or open-ended discussions

    | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-------:|-------|-----------|
    | 60m     | [Revisiting private symbols](https://github.com/zenparsing/proposal-private-symbols) | Kevin Smith |
    | 60m     | [Class fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-fields) and [private methods](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-private-methods/) Stage 3 update ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Q9upYkWnPjJaVc8k9q3U6NekDch8tsz7CgV-Xm55-5Y/edit#slide=id.p)) | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    | 45m     | [Announcing a Tests Reports Project](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1PReJMVRRlh6sL5R0P2cVITGPAGMSwAol0DIkMQxzQhU/edit?usp=sharing) | Isaac Durazo, Katie Broida, Leo Balter |

1. Overflow from timeboxed agenda items (in insertion order)

    | topic | presenter |
    |-------|-----------|

1. Other business
    1. Thank host
1. Adjournment

### Schedule constraints

- Domenic will only be there on Thursday and would like to attend the "IDL for JavaScript" presentation. Ideally also `Promise.allSettled` but that is less important.
- Leo Balter and Isaac Durazo (Bocoup) can't attend the meeting on Thursday, we have a presentation to give and we would like it to be on Tuesday or Wednesday
- Isaac Durazo (Bocoup) is attending the meeting from a different time zone, but anytime after 11am works for him.
- Yulia Startsev will be attending remotely from Berlin. She will be available from 10am everyday until around 2pm or 3 pm.

## Dates and locations of future meetings

| Dates                    | Location          | Host                    |
|--------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------|
| 2018-11-27 to 2018-11-29 | Cupertino         | Apple                   |
| 2019-01-29 to 2019-01-31 | Scottsdale, AZ    | GoDaddy                 |
| 2019-03-26 to 2019-03-28 | New York          | Google                  |
| 2019-06-04 to 2019-06-06 | Berlin            | JSConf EU               |
| 2019-07-23 to 2019-07-25 | Redmond, WA       | Microsoft               |
