
<img src="../images/Ecma_RVB-003.jpg" align="right" height="70" alt="" />

# Agenda for the 89th meeting of Ecma TC39

- **Dates and times**:
  - 10:00 to 15:00 EDT (America/New\_York) on March 28th, 2022
  - 10:00 to 15:00 EDT (America/New\_York) on March 29th, 2022
  - 10:00 to 15:00 EDT (America/New\_York) on March 30th, 2022
  - 10:00 to 15:00 EDT (America/New\_York) on March 31st, 2022
- **Location**: Remote
- **Attendee information**: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/420

For meeting times in your timezone, visit [Temporal docs](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal/docs/) and run the code below in the devtools console.

```js
Temporal.ZonedDateTime.from('2022-03-28T10:00[America/New_York]')
  .withTimeZone(Temporal.Now.timeZone()) // your time zone
  .toLocaleString()
```

Background:
- Allen Wirfs-Brock's [paper on standards committee participation for new attendees](http://wirfs-brock.com/allen/files/papers/standpats-asianplop2016.pdf)
- TC39's documentation on [How to participate in meetings](https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/blob/HEAD/how-to-participate-in-meetings.md)

## Agenda topic rules

Deadline for advancement eligibility: [March 18th, 2022 10:00 EDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/countdown/generic?p0=1440&iso=20220318T14&msg=TC39%20Submission%20deadline)
  - <sub>Note: this time is selected to be precisely 10 days prior to the start of the meeting</sub>

1. Proposals not looking to advance may be added at any time; if after the deadline, please always use a pull request so that members are notified of changes. Note: an unmerged PR counts as ”added” for the purposes of this requirement.
1. Proposals seeking feedback at stage 0 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *should* include supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 1 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to a proposal repository and they *should* link to supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stages 2, 3, or 4 must be added (and noted as such) *along with the necessary materials* prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to supporting materials prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline. If these materials change substantially after the deadline, the proposal may be disqualified from advancement, based on the committee’s judgment.
    1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 4 *must* link to a pull request into [the spec](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262), since the [process](https://tc39.github.io/process-document/) requires one.
1. Proposal-based agenda items should be sorted primarily by stage (descending), secondarily by timebox (ascending), and finally by insertion date.

Supporting materials includes slides, a link to the proposal repository, a link to spec text, etc.; essentially, anything you are planning to present to the committee, or that would be useful for delegates to review.

## Agenda items

1. Opening, welcome and roll call (Chair)
    1. Opening of the meeting
    1. TC39 follows its [Code of Conduct](https://tc39.github.io/code-of-conduct/)
    1. Introduction of attendees
    1. Host facilities, local logistics
    1. Quick recap of meeting IPR policy
    1. Overview of communication tools
1. Find volunteers for note taking
1. Adoption of the agenda
1. Approval of the minutes from last meeting
1. Next meeting host and logistics
1. Secretary's Report (15m, Istvan Sebestyen)https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/HEAD/2022/tc39-2022-12.pdf
1. Project Editors’ Reports
    1. [ECMA262](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262) Status Updates ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1h3SiBX5fGeu9RDKo88j8MSEsTe4DHtbgybhW02n5mGk/edit)) (15m)
    1. [ECMA402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402) Status Updates (15m)
    1. [ECMA404](https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-404.htm) Status Updates (15m)
    1. [Test262](https://github.com/tc39/test262) Status Updates (15m)
1. Updates from the [CoC Committee](https://tc39.es/code-of-conduct/#code-of-conduct-committee) (15m)
    1. Discuss new members ([issue](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/382#issuecomment-1029240838))
1. [Web compatibility issues](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22web+reality%22+is%3Aissue) / [Needs Consensus PRs](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22needs+consensus%22)

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 5m      | remove tables of Unicode property values and aliases ([#2649](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2649)) | Michael Ficarra |
    |   | 10m     | remove callerRealm from HostEnsureCanCompileStrings ([#2670](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2670)) | Kevin Gibbons |
    |   | 15m     | Can we try to remove gross use of @@species in the TypedArray constructor ([#2677](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/2677)) | Shu-yu Guo |
    |   | 15m     | handle broken promises in AsyncGenerator.prototype.return ([#2683](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues/2683)) | Kevin Gibbons |

1. Overflow from previous meeting

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|

1. Incubation call chartering (15m on the last day)

1. Short (&le;30m) Timeboxed Discussions

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 10m     | Copyright Update | Yulia Startsev |

1. Proposals

    ✓ represents an agenda item which has been presented, and does not indicate stage advancement

    | ✓ | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 3     | 15m     | [Array Grouping](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-array-grouping) [Status Update](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-array-grouping/issues/37) | Justin Ridgewell |
    |   | 3     | 30m     | [Resizable buffers](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-resizablearraybuffer) normative changes for [TA#set](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-resizablearraybuffer/pull/87) and [TA#subarray](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-resizablearraybuffer/pull/93) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QBbEnfWn9QAn48J1SAm3l5xJARE5wcKt3MlTlcVKIek/edit?usp=sharing)) | Shu-yu Guo |
    |   | 3     | 30m     | [Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal) update and normative changes ([slides](http://ptomato.name/talks/tc39-2022-03/)) | Philip Chimento |
    |   | 3     | 30m     | [ShadowRealms Updates](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Juv36nUTfcvb_E2NUeAPGuToCCBWIX0NLObx_h5qDYU) | Leo Balter |
    |   | 2     | 30m     | [RegExp set notation + Unicode properties of strings](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-set-notation) for Stage 3 ([PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2418), [spec preview with inline diffs](https://arai-a.github.io/ecma262-compare/?pr=2418), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_rcjmR2YLZMMB0i4SdZ4RV6eiJB7WmXo_i82_nh7vNg/edit?usp=sharing)) | Mathias Bynens & Markus Scherer |
    |   | 2     | 30m     | [Change Array by Copy](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-change-array-by-copy) for Stage 3 ([Spec](https://tc39.es/proposal-change-array-by-copy/)) ([Tracker](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-change-array-by-copy/issues/74)) ([Slides](https://www.dropbox.com/s/5rabrx387snkbfn/change_array_by_copy_at_tc39_march_2022.pdf?dl=0)) | Ashley Claymore |
    |   | 2     | 30m     | Bikeshedding [pipe operator](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pipeline-operator)’s topic token ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1dDucwsW8qM22yWLr_NHFmAiAltQSht3AXYW00kET4GA/edit?usp=sharing); see also [wiki page](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pipeline-operator/wiki/Bikeshedding-the-Hack-topic-token) and [issue thread](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pipeline-operator/issues/91)) | J. S. Choi |
    |   | 2     | 60m     | [Decorators](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators) for Stage 3 ([Tracker](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators/issues/442), [spec preview with inline diffs](https://arai-a.github.io/ecma262-compare/?pr=2417), [slides](https://slides.com/pzuraq/decorators-for-stage-3-2022-03)) | Chris Hewell Garrett |
    |   | 1     | 30m     | Bikeshedding [call-this](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-call-this) syntax ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-MLGCibETPX8NiIvNJ1xOxiMS-NB8GCbDGNcB5patiU/edit?usp=sharing); see also [issue thread](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-bind-this/issues/10)) | J. S. Choi |
    |   | 1     | 60m     | [Pattern matching](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pattern-matching) for Stage 2 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sJoXU1ysK6eZn04pjnQ-1z6EetsVf9VfHeU0Ht8hiFQ)) | Tab Atkins-Bittner |
    |   | 1     | 60m     | [String.dedent](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-string-dedent) Status Update ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fF4TqU6eLcj74s0wa1VSq5wGORSY1m1naekTNF9JAz4/edit?usp=sharing)) | Justin Ridgewell |
    |   | 0     | 30m     | [Units Conversion](https://github.com/younies/unit-conversion-proposal) For stage 1 [slides](https://bit.ly/presentation-units-conversion) | Younies Mahmoud
    |   | 0     | 30m     | [Intl.MessageFormat](https://github.com/dminor/proposal-intl-messageformat/) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oThTeL_n5-HAfmJTri-i8yU2YtHUvj9AakmWiyRGPlw)) | Eemeli Aro |
    |   | 0     | 30m     | [Function.prototype.once](https://github.com/js-choi/proposal-function-once) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1M0bzEEBZGfb_gIDVjIytbfYnLUhG7EN9iUTx6KJE2po/edit?usp=sharing)) | J. S. Choi
    |   | 0     | 90m     | [Types as Comments](https://github.com/giltayar/proposal-types-as-comments/) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://1drv.ms/b/s!AltPy8G9ZDJdq28xR8VuAcaIyq3h?e=quwXQB)) | Daniel Rosenwasser, Rob Palmer, Romulo Cintra

1. Longer or open-ended discussions

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 60m    | [New integrity level](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-limited-arraybuffer/issues/15), a try to unify [limited array buffer](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-limited-arraybuffer) and [read only collection](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-readonly-collections) proposal. ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1H0_eShe6JW0iKwHrG_TjdYRyrlGJF58g8rYt65bWiS0/edit?usp=sharing)) | Jack Works and Mark Miller |
    |   | 90m    | Holistic discussion of TC39 dataflow proposals ([updated diagram](https://jschoi.org/22/es-dataflow/map/), [updated article](https://jschoi.org/22/es-dataflow/), [post-plenary ad-hoc discussion](https://github.com/tc39/incubator-agendas/blob/HEAD/notes/2022/01-27.md)) | J. S. Choi |
    |   | 120m    | extending built-ins ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bZPCZZv--nXgjA7ascDF0eZ9nYJVhfT5Y2wHu5Kog4Q/edit)) | Kevin Gibbons and Michael Ficarra |

1. Overflow from timeboxed agenda items (in insertion order)

    | ✓ | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|-------|-----------|

1. Other business
    1. Thank host
1. Adjournment

### Schedule constraints

 - Jordan Harband will not be present on Day 3 (Wednesday), and would prefer to be present for (in order of importance): pattern matching, types as comments, extending builtins, bind-this, destructuring private fields, decorators, logical default assignment, Temporal, once, ShadowRealms

- Philip Chimento (Temporal) would prefer not to be scheduled as the first item on any day, but will deal with it if necessary

- Mathias Bynens & Markus Scherer (RegExp `v` flag) can only present on Tuesday Mar 29 between 13:00 and 14:00 EDT.

- Nicolò Ribaudo will not be present on Monday 28th after 14:00 EDT and on Thursday 31st before 13:00 EDT, and would like to be present for "Change Array By Copy for Stage 3" and "Bikeshedding pipe operator’s topic token"

- Kevin and Michael cannot do the "extending built-ins" discussion on Monday

- Mark Miller will be absent for one hour, from 10amPDT/1pmEDT to 11amPDT/2pmEDT on Tuesday March 29. The sessions I would prefer not to miss, from highest to lowest priority, are:
   - New integrity level (must not miss)
   - extending built-ins
   - Decorators
   - remove callerRealm from HostEnsureCanCompileStrings
   - ShadowRealm Updates
   - Pattern Matching

- Chris Hewell Garrett will not be present on Tuesday March 29th between 10:00 EDT and 13:00 EDT, and would like to present "Decorators for Stage 3" at any other time.

- J. S. Choi will not be available on Monday, March 28 between 1:00 PM EDT / 10 AM PDT and 2:30 PM EDT.

- Jack Works will not be availabe on 8~9 AM PST of the 4th day.

<!-- Be specific! Provide a full name, date and time range that they will or will not be available, and which sessions they are trying to prioritize. Satisfaction not guaranteed, but more information is useful. Conflicting constraints honored on a first-come, first served basis. -->

## Dates and locations of future meetings

| Dates                    | Location                       |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------|
| 2022-06-06 to 2022-06-09 | Remote: (was Austin)           |
| 2022-07-18 to 2022-07-21 | Remote: "SF"                   |
| 2022-09-13 to 2022-09-16 | Tokyo, Japan                   |
