
<img src="../images/Ecma_RVB-003.jpg" align="right" height="70" alt="" />

# Agenda for the 91st meeting of Ecma TC39

- **Host**: Google
- **Dates and times**:
  - 10:00 to 16:00 PDT (America/Los\_Angeles) on Tuesday 19 July 2022
  - 10:00 to 16:00 PDT (America/Los\_Angeles) on Wednesday 20 July 2022
  - 10:00 to 16:00 PDT (America/Los\_Angeles) on Thursday 21 July 2022
- **Location**: San Francisco, CA
- **Attendee information**: [Reflector Post](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/437)

For meeting times in your timezone, visit [Temporal docs](https://tc39.es/proposal-temporal/docs/) and run the code below in the devtools console.

```js
Temporal.ZonedDateTime.from('2022-07-19T10:00[America/Los_Angeles]')
  .withTimeZone(Temporal.Now.timeZone()) // your time zone
  .toLocaleString()
```

Background:
- Allen Wirfs-Brock's [paper on standards committee participation for new attendees](http://wirfs-brock.com/allen/files/papers/standpats-asianplop2016.pdf)
- TC39's documentation on [How to participate in meetings](https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/blob/HEAD/how-to-participate-in-meetings.md)

## Agenda topic rules

Deadline for advancement eligibility: [July 9th, 10:00 PDT](https://www.timeanddate.com/countdown/generic?p0=1440&iso=20220709T17&msg=TC39%20Submission%20deadline)
  - <sub>Note: this time is selected to be precisely 10 days prior to the start of the meeting</sub>

1. Proposals not looking to advance may be added at any time; if after the deadline, please always use a pull request so that members are notified of changes. Note: an unmerged PR counts as ”added” for the purposes of this requirement.
1. Proposals seeking feedback at stage 0 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *should* include supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 1 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to a proposal repository and they *should* link to supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stages 2, 3, or 4 must be added (and noted as such) *along with the necessary materials* prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to supporting materials prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline. If these materials change substantially after the deadline, the proposal may be disqualified from advancement, based on the committee’s judgment.
    1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 4 *must* link to a pull request into [the spec](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262), since the [process](https://tc39.github.io/process-document/) requires one.
1. Proposal-based agenda items should be sorted primarily by stage (descending), secondarily by timebox (ascending), and finally by insertion date.

Supporting materials includes slides, a link to the proposal repository, a link to spec text, etc.; essentially, anything you are planning to present to the committee, or that would be useful for delegates to review.

## Agenda items

1. Opening, welcome and roll call (Chair)
    1. Opening of the meeting
    1. TC39 follows its [Code of Conduct](https://tc39.github.io/code-of-conduct/)
    1. Introduction of attendees
    1. Host facilities, local logistics
    1. Quick recap of meeting IPR policy
    1. Overview of communication tools
    1. Reminder to review Github Delegate teams (Jordan Harband)
1. Find volunteers for note taking
1. Adoption of the agenda
1. Approval of the minutes from last meeting
1. Next meeting host and logistics
1. Secretary's Report (15m, Istvan Sebestyen) https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/HEAD/2022/tc39-2022-031.pptx
    1. [ECMA262](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262) Status Updates ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1c82TEs_k4AW1CSh8qdhUL79QU6np9L8AsBx04mLaHAU/edit?usp=sharing)) (15m)
    1. [ECMA402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402) Status Updates (15m)
    1. [ECMA404](https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-404.htm) Status Updates [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AtKsCRpL6ekccGfH9XlJ4KmKaVytk9fm2IMU0phn9iU/edit) (15m)
    1. [Test262](https://github.com/tc39/test262) Status Updates (15m)
1. Updates from the [CoC Committee](https://tc39.es/code-of-conduct/#code-of-conduct-committee) (15m)
1. [Web compatibility issues](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22web+reality%22+is%3Aissue) / [Needs Consensus PRs](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22needs+consensus%22)

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   |      5m | [Only coerce once in the BigInt constructor](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2812) | Kevin Gibbons |
    |   |     15m | [Allow host exotic objects to reject private fields](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2807) | Kevin Gibbons |
    |   |     30m | [Avoid triggering `throw` in corner case in async generators](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2818) or [Avoid mostly-redundant await in async `yield*`](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2819) - [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ip-v0VNF8eWgN4mg5BkVuvLn-1tO4lKP70As8LRoMGc/edit?usp=sharing) | Kevin Gibbons |
    |   |     30m | [Always check regular expression flags by "flags"](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2791) | Richard Gibson |
    |   |     20m | [Allow toString of a built-in function to output a computed property name](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2695) | Richard Gibson |
    |   |     20m | [Clarify the layering relationship between ECMA-262 and ECMA-402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/690) | Richard Gibson |

1. Overflow from previous meeting

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|

1. Incubation call chartering (15m on the last day)

1. Short (&le;30m) Timeboxed Discussions

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 10m     | Stenography support ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FLtYVdf2l3yX0U5NlUC91mcyC5OR8m6CTx77yjqURD8/edit#slide=id.p), [issue](https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/426)) | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    |   | 15m     | Intl FallbackSymbol: well-known or not? | Jordan Harband |
    |   | 20m     | Well-formatted PDF standards for 2022 and beyond ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1eNKAGEoa6WGgg9IEhTBHdHj1jA7aJFPO5PIsYminP3E/edit?usp=sharing) new PDFs: [ECMA-262](https://www.ecma-international.org/wp-content/uploads/ECMA-262_13th_edition_june_2022.pdf) [ECMA-402](https://www.ecma-international.org/wp-content/uploads/ECMA-402_9th_edition_june_2022.pdf))| Allen Wirfs-Brock |

1. Proposals

    ✓ represents an agenda item which has been presented, and does not indicate stage advancement

    | ✓ | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   |     3 |      5m | ⏳ [Resizable buffer](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-resizablearraybuffer/)'s [TypedArray.prototype.transfer detach check fix](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-resizablearraybuffer/pull/99) | Shu-yu Guo |
    |   |     3 |     15m | [Hashbang](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-hashbang) for stage 4 ([PR](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2816)) | Jordan Harband |
    |   |     3 |     20m | [Change Array by Copy](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-change-array-by-copy/) update [issue 95](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-change-array-by-copy/issues/95) | Ashley Claymore |
    |   |     3 |     30m | Remove Order Check in NumberFormat v3 and in ECMA402 Intl.DateTimeFormat ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1UUvbf3FFu9PGtrPAKPdMad9DZuVFLIvkAsAxyJZyvxM/edit), [PR701](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/pull/701), [PR100](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3/pull/100)) | Frank Yung-Fong Tang (Google) |
    |   |     3 |     30m | [Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal) update and normative PRs ([slides](http://ptomato.name/talks/tc39-2022-07/)) | Philip Chimento |
    |   |     3 |     30m | [NumberFormat v3](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-numberformat-v3) Stage 3 update [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1C2FiBTcDBKOGORONHI6lV_rMWge3RAokb1kSlfw8igE/edit#slide=id.p) | Shane F Carr (Google) |
    |   |     2 |     15m | [Duplicate named capturing groups](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-duplicate-named-capturing-groups) for stage 3 | Kevin Gibbons |
    |   |     2 |     30m | [Set methods](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-set-methods): how to access properties of the argument ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/19nCrwU5RkbIafW9zRDVDbGbPsiq7ct1IovsJLTU7p8Q/edit)) | Kevin Gibbons |
    |   |     2 |     45m | [Iterator Helpers](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-iterator-helpers) update ([slides](./iterator-helpers-update-July.pdf)) | Michael Ficarra and Kevin Gibbons |
    |   |     2 |     45m | [Record & Tuple](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-record-tuple) Update ([slides](https://www.dropbox.com/s/g4enjgd4p2npv2s/record_tuple_update_july_%202022.pdf?dl=0)) ([issues](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-record-tuple/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+milestone%3A%22stage+3%22)) | Ashley Claymore, Rick Button, Robin Ricard |
    |   |     1 |     30m | [Double-ended Iterator and Destructuring](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-deiter) update ([slides](https://johnhax.net/2022/deiter/slide#0)) | HE Shi-Jun |
    |   |     1 |     45m | [Import Reflection](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-import-reflection) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1u2DoyZG0KUgVjCw51K0e66v4Hefb5sSzwKw907XDvIQ/)) for stage 2 | Guy Bedford & Luca Casonato |
    |   |     1 |     90m | [Compartments as Module Loaders](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-compartments) ([Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1NJWRBZJBP25uoyLXYDQVU5uG7YVZD4M9/view)) | Kris Kowal |
    |   |     0 |     30m | [Symbol Predicates](https://github.com/rricard/proposal-symbol-predicates) for stage 1 or 2 ([spec](https://www.rricard.me/proposal-symbol-predicates/)) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1-3SEk2fr3LHoezFgyaXJX0O6UU6pKgd444a372qQ4pQ/edit)) | Jordan Harband & Robin Ricard |
    |   |     0 |     30m | [Policy Maps & Sets](https://github.com/js-choi/proposal-policy-map-set) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ykMq2uQZbvtawN5MpBMD2Y1PXk3DZEI_O5U0Fsf-_ZQ/edit?usp=sharing)) | J. S. Choi & Hemanth HM |
    |   |     0 |     30m | [Function memoization](https://github.com/js-choi/proposal-function-memo) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yeMIUYnu17QCvIADQ6rGg0v1tCC93EOkMhR66IKbYUU/edit?usp=sharing)) | J. S. Choi & Hemanth HM |
    |   |     0 |     30m | [Object.{pick,omit}](https://github.com/tc39-transfer/proposal-object-pick-or-omit) for Stage 1/2 (slides TDB) | Hemanth HM |
    |   |     0 |     30m | [Function.pipe & flow](https://github.com/js-choi/proposal-function-pipe-flow) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1nkKKx26QuiqewGsl2gcTVFGd8HxRA_UBgtgQKdVpfQQ/edit?usp=sharing)) | J. S. Choi |


1. Longer or open-ended discussions

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|

1. Overflow from timeboxed agenda items (in insertion order)

    | ✓ | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|-------|-----------|

1. Breakout topics (if time allows)

   If we have additional time in this meeting, the following are topics for informal, inconclusive discussion, potentially in smaller groups in parallel, with no presenter or presentation, or expectations of preparation before the meeting. Please freely propose additional topics (including past the agenda deadline), and we'll decide which sessions to have at the time, based on interests of delegates.

    | ✓ | topic | proposer |
    |:-:|-------|-----------|
    |   | Inclusion | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    |   | Modules | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    |   | TC39, Ecma and governance | Daniel Ehrenberg |
    |   | BigInt Math (see [2022-05 incubator](https://github.com/tc39/incubator-agendas/blob/HEAD/notes/2022/05-06.md) & [WH’s implementation of sqrt/cbrt](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-bigint-math/issues/16#issuecomment-1132299403)) | J. S. Choi
    |   | [Pipe operator’s topic tokens](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-pipeline-operator/wiki/Bikeshedding-the-Hack-topic-token) | J. S. Choi
    |   | [Call-this/bind-this](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-call-this)’s use cases | J. S. Choi

1. Other business
    1. Thank host
1. Adjournment

### Schedule constraints

_Schedule constraints should be supplied here **48 hours** before the meeting begins so that the Chairs can take them into account when preparing the schedule._

<!-- Be specific! Provide a full name, date and time range that they will or will not be available, and which sessions they are trying to prioritize. Satisfaction not guaranteed, but more information is useful. Conflicting constraints honored on a first-come, first served basis. -->

- Shu-yu Guo cannot attend on July 20 and would like to be present for Change-Array-by-copy, Import Reflection, Compartments, and R&T updates.
- Nicolò Ribaudo will only attend on the 19th and 20th, and would like to be present for (in order from the most important to the less important) Compartments, R&T updates, Import Reflection, Change-Array-by-copy.
- J. S. Choi cannot attend all day on July 19, as well as July 20 before 11 am PDT. They can attend on July 20 after 11 am PDT, as well as all day on July 21.
- Allen Wirfs-Brock can lead the PDF Specs discussion anytime on the 20th, after 11AM the 19th, or after noon the 21st.
- Philip Chimento (presenting Temporal) only available after 13:00 on the 20th and 21st. In addition to Temporal, I would prefer to be present for the test262 status update and the PDF discussion.
- The stenographer will work from 10 AM to noon on July 20th (unless other constraints come up, in which case Daniel Ehrenberg can work with the stenographer to try to reschedule). Ideally, that day would start with a brief stenography presentation, followed by two hours of topics which are happy to have stenographer support.
- Jack Works: I want to be present for (in order from the most important to the less important) `Pattern Matching`, `Compartments`, `Import Reflection`, `ShadowRealm`. I'm available on any day, but it is midnight for me. I prefer those topics are **continuously presented** (no other topics in the middle). I want to request that those topics **should not be presented earlier than the scheduled time**, otherwise I may miss it.
- Chengzhong Wu will only be available on first 2 hours and would like to be present for ShadowRealm.

#### Normal Constraints

<!-- Constraints supplied more than 48 hours before the meeting should go here -->

#### Late-breaking Schedule Constraints

<!-- Constraints supplied less than 48 hours before the meeting should go here -->


## Dates and locations of future meetings

| Dates                    | Location                       |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------|
| 2022-09-13 to 2022-09-16 | Remote (JST timezone)          |
