
<img src="../images/Ecma_RVB-003.jpg" align="right" height="70" alt="" />

# Agenda for the 85th meeting of Ecma TC39

- **Host**: TBD
- **Dates and times**:
  - 10:00 to 15:00 "EDT" on August 31st, 2021
  - 10:00 to 15:00 "EDT" on September 1st, 2021
- **Location**: Remote
- **Attendee information**: https://github.com/tc39/Reflector/issues/388

Background:
- Allen Wirfs-Brock's [paper on standards committee participation for new attendees](http://wirfs-brock.com/allen/files/papers/standpats-asianplop2016.pdf)
- TC39's documentation on [How to participate in meetings](https://github.com/tc39/how-we-work/blob/HEAD/how-to-participate-in-meetings.md)

## Agenda topic rules

Deadline for advancement eligibility: [August 21st, 2021, 10:00 ET](https://www.timeanddate.com/countdown/generic?p0=1440&iso=20210821T14&msg=TC39%20Submission%20deadline)
  - <sub>Note: this time is selected to be precisely 10 days prior to the start of the meeting</sub>

1. Proposals not looking to advance may be added at any time; if after the deadline, please always use a pull request so that members are notified of changes.
1. Proposals seeking feedback at stage 0 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *should* include supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 1 must be added (and noted as such) prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to a proposal repository and they *should* link to supporting materials when possible.
1. Proposals looking to advance to stages 2, 3, or 4 must be added (and noted as such) *along with the necessary materials* prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline.
    1. Such proposals *must* link to supporting materials prior to the deadline, or else delegates may object to advancement solely on the basis of missing the deadline. If these materials change substantially after the deadline, the proposal may be disqualified from advancement, based on the committee’s judgment.
    1. Proposals looking to advance to stage 4 *must* link to a pull request into [the spec](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262), since the [process](https://tc39.github.io/process-document/) requires one.
1. Proposal-based agenda items should be sorted primarily by stage (descending), secondarily by timebox (ascending), and finally by insertion date.

Supporting materials includes slides, a link to the proposal repository, a link to spec text, etc.; essentially, anything you are planning to present to the committee, or that would be useful for delegates to review.

## Agenda items

1. Opening, welcome and roll call (Chair)
    1. Opening of the meeting
    1. TC39 follows its [Code of Conduct](https://tc39.github.io/code-of-conduct/)
    1. Introduction of attendees
    1. Host facilities, local logistics
    1. Quick recap of meeting IPR policy
    1. Overview of communication tools
1. Find volunteers for note taking
1. Adoption of the agenda
1. Approval of the minutes from last meeting
1. Next meeting host and logistics
1. Secretary's Report (15m, Istvan Sebestyen)https://github.com/tc39/agendas/blob/HEAD/2021/tc39-2021-045.pdf
1. Project Editors’ Reports
    1. [ECMA262](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262) Status Updates ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Hu_fPWqQtKuXGvvifGM_v7nEfqDiwR9h1nRTCS9chE4/edit)) (15m)
    1. [ECMA402](https://github.com/tc39/ecma402) Status Updates (15m)
    1. [ECMA404](https://www.ecma-international.org/publications/standards/Ecma-404.htm) Status Updates (15m)
    1. [Test262](https://github.com/tc39/test262) Status Updates (15m)
1. Updates from the [CoC Committee](https://tc39.es/code-of-conduct/#code-of-conduct-committee) (15m)
1. [Web compatibility issues](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/issues?utf8=✓&q=is%3Aopen+label%3A%22web+reality%22+is%3Aissue) / [Needs Consensus PRs](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22needs+consensus%22)

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 10m     | [mark `with` as Legacy](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2441) | Jordan Harband or Michael Ficarra |
    |   | 5m      | [`continue` labels should not pass through blocks](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2482) | Kevin Gibbons |
    |   | 10m      | [Realm for error for tail-called revoked proxies](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/2495) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1txbE6t69AAufBlKsCF20Gzyq2pUDBxK2Az7XQwljZC0/edit?usp=sharing)) | Kevin Gibbons |

1. Overflow from previous meeting

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|

1. Incubation call chartering (15m on the last day)

1. Short (&le;30m) Timeboxed Discussions

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 15m     | [Report for the Realms Official Renaming Bikeshed Thread](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-realms/issues/321#issuecomment-900523250) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Rb6YISQFKNQIANpLctcuk-GGM5InNfcdA0zuUCgb-fE/edit#slide=id.p)) | Leo Balter |

1. Proposals

    ✓ represents an agenda item which has been presented, and does not indicate stage advancement

    | ✓ | stage | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-----:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 3     | 10m     | [Relative indexing `.at()` method](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-relative-indexing-method) for Stage 4 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1A8oU6B-lN-dO2OKgIfvURb89yC-C5TGiOMW4KGd2Jaw/edit?usp=sharing)) | Shu-yu Guo |
    |   | 3     | 10m     | [Accessible Object hasOwnProperty](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-accessible-object-hasownproperty) for Stage 4 ([spec](https://tc39.es/proposal-accessible-object-hasownproperty/), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/177vM52Cd6Dij-ta6vmw4Wi1sCKrzbCKjavSBpbdz9fM/edit?usp=sharing)) | Jamie Kyle |
    |   | 3     | 10m     | [Class `static` initialization blocks](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-class-static-block) for Stage 4 ([spec](https://arai-a.github.io/ecma262-compare/?pr=2440)) | Ron Buckton |
    |   | 3     | 10m     | ⌛ [Small resizable buffers bounds checking update](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-resizablearraybuffer/issues/68) | Shu-yu Guo |
    |   | 3     | 60m     | IETF Update & Normative PRs for [Temporal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal) ([slides](https://ptomato.name/talks/tc39-2021-08/)) | Ujjwal Sharma & Philip Chimento |
    |   | 2     | 3-5m    | [Iterator Helpers Blitz Update](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-iterator-helpers) (towards stage 3) | Yulia Startsev|
    |   | 2     | 45m     | [RegExp set notation + Unicode properties of strings](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-set-notation) update ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1foloLW13Elu0kslVsmD1hR_qZQBn8INcNpdWl0rlHrI/edit)) | Mathias Bynens |
    |   | 2     | 45m     | [`Intl.DurationFormat`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-duration-format) update ([slides](https://ryzokuken.dev/slides/2021-08-df.html#/)) | Ujjwal Sharma |
    |   | 1     | 30m     | [Change Array by copy](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-change-array-by-copy) for Stage 2 ([spec](https://tc39.es/proposal-change-array-by-copy/), [slides](https://www.rricard.me/serve/tc39-aug2021-array-copy.pdf)) | Robin Ricard & Ashley Claymore |
    |   | 1     | 30m     | [Pipeline operator](https://github.com/js-choi/proposal-hack-pipes/) for Stage 2 ([spec](https://jschoi.org/21/es-hack-pipes/), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xTnIoh1ECLKAjEQ5YZ5hRw2MZzW67Q78exAR_q2EDgM/edit?usp=sharing)) | Tab Atkins-Bitter, J. S. Choi |
    |   | 0     | 15m     | [String is USV String](https://github.com/guybedford/proposal-is-usv-string) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1yox7jdDTP9hfFrgZ9TNNxeZ6iQeXP_wt_ObgwAYWPB0/edit?usp=sharing)) | Guy Bedford & Bradley Farias |
    |   | 0     | 30m     | [`Array.asyncFrom`](https://github.com/js-choi/proposal-array-async-from) for Stage 1 ([spec](https://jschoi.org/21/es-array-async-from/), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sbnssKjUjt732EQYGWHljJ0pWhA7DTCg-lnLB7IOpck/edit#slide=id.gc6fa3c898_0_16)) | J. S. Choi |
    |   | 0     | 30m     | [BigInt Math](https://github.com/js-choi/proposal-bigint-math) for Stage 1 ([spec](https://jschoi.org/21/es-bigint-math/), [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_o2d4YtsG2rHTKP6etRsM8YFCUr0096ISEe2F3Z90cQ/edit?usp=sharing)) | J. S. Choi |
    |   | 0     | 30m     | [Get Intrinsic](https://github.com/ljharb/proposal-get-intrinsic) for Stage 1 or 2 ([initial spec](https://ljharb.github.io/proposal-get-intrinsic/)) | Jordan Harband |
    |   | 0     | 45m     | [Fixed shape objects](https://github.com/syg/proposal-structs/) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1IDElYqLzGZMpHI1Z7FtH_uJh1vK6niv_2cQMIcwbV5g/edit?usp=sharing)) | Shu-yu Guo |
    |   | 0     | 60m     | [RegExp Feature Parity](https://github.com/rbuckton/proposal-regexp-features) for Stage 1 ([slides](https://1drv.ms/p/s!AjgWTO11Fk-Tkfla9MapGDckOz_q0Q?e=JDubat)) | Ron Buckton |

1. Longer or open-ended discussions

    | ✓ | timebox | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|:-------:|-------|-----------|
    |   | 60m     | Response to ECMA / LF Proposed Partnership ([slides](https://github.com/msaboff/tc39/blob/HEAD/ECMA%20-%20LF%20Response%20Slides.pdf)) | Michael Saboff
    |   | 60m     | Tightening host restrictions to improve testing ([example](https://github.com/tc39/test262/pull/3054#issuecomment-882741949)) | Jordan Harband |
    |   | 30m     | [Extending `null`](https://github.com/tc39/ecma262/pull/1321) ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WPB6bPIoCYnD1YPlhcvcuxiGev8aMLCq-bLN2qWadFk/edit?usp=sharing)) | Gus Caplan |
    |   | 30m     | Taking over maintainership of structured clone ([slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14PNcWgkd3Ik61b0Fv9qFISfjUfGz4ZThCkyC-XTTC_8/edit?usp=sharing)) | Shu-yu Guo |

1. Overflow from timeboxed agenda items (in insertion order)

    | ✓ | topic | presenter |
    |:-:|-------|-----------|

1. Other business
    1. Thank host
1. Adjournment

### Schedule constraints

<!-- Be specific! Provide a full name, date and time range that they will or will not be available, and which sessions they are trying to prioritize. Satisfaction not guaranteed, but more information is useful. Conflicting constraints honored on a first-come, first served basis. -->
- Please schedule the “RegExp set notation” update within the last two hours on the first day, i.e. somewhere between 13:00–15:00 ET on August 31st, 2021.
- Kevin Gibbons' needs-consensus PRs are low priority; it's fine if they end up overflowing to next meeting.
- Adam Klein would like to be able to attend "Fixed shape objects" but is unavailable during the 13:00-14:00 hour. If it could be swapped with "RegExp set notation" that would be appreciated.

## Dates and locations of future meetings

| Dates                    | Location                       |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------|
| 2021-10-25 to 2021-10-28 | "London?", BST                 |
| 2021-12-14 to 2021-12-15 | Remote: PST "Los Angeles"      |
